Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Last updated on March 31, 2022 What is a Writ of Distress and What is it Used For? In Singapore, a writ of distress is an order issued by a court, on the application of a landlord. It allows a sheriff (an enforcement officer of the court) to enter a property to seize the tenant’s possessions, and sell these to cover the cost of the tenant’s unpaid rent. A landlord can use a writ of distress to claim unpaid rent of up to 12 months from the date of the application for a writ of distress. If the tenant has already abandoned the premises by the time the writ is granted, the writ empowers the landlord to effectively take back possession of his premises if he is owed at least 2 months’ rent. This is even if the lease period has not expired yet. What Can and Cannot be Seized under a Writ of Distress? The sheriff can seize any items in the premises except: Whatever is in the tenant’s hands at the time of seizure and that is being used; Any tools or implements, assuming that there are already other items in the premises that can be seized to fully cover the amount set out in the writ of distress; Clothes and bedding; Anything relating to the tenant’s work; Anything belonging to hotel guests if the premises is a hotel; and Anything already in the custody of the law. Procedure to Apply for a Writ of Distress in Singapore The procedure for applying for a writ of distress in Singapore is to file an originating application without notice with a supporting affidavit in the form prescribed by the Rules of Court. You should ideally engage a lawyer to do this for you. What Happens When a Writ of Distress is Executed? When a writ is executed, the sheriff goes down to the premises, seizes items to sell and provides the tenant with a list of everything seized as well as a notice of the seizure. The tenant would then be given 5 days to either: Pay all the rent, legal costs and sheriff’s costs; or Apply to court to stop the sale of the items. If the tenant does neither of these things, the items will be auctioned. The proceeds from the auctions will be used in this order: First, to cover the sheriff’s fees and expenses Then, to cover the rent and costs that the tenant owes the landlord Any remainder is returned to the tenant What if the tenant removes any items prior to the seizure? If the tenant tries to remove any items from the premises before the sheriff arrives, or as he arrives, the sheriff is empowered to, within 30 days of such removal, follow the movement of those items and remove them from wherever the tenant has moved them. What if a subtenant’s items were seized? If a subtenant’s items have been inadvertently seized, they can apply to the court to have the items returned to them. In that case, the subtenant must pay the arrears of rent, and any future rent, directly to the landlord instead of to the main tenant before the court can order the items to be released to them. — The application procedure for a writ of distress in Singapore can be relatively quick and easy if the person doing it knows what they’re doing. But, the reality is that this is a process that dates back to 1935 and although it has been updated numerous times over the years, it is a rather complicated and technical process that is difficult to navigate without a lawyer. Therefore, if you have a tenant who has not been paying rent, it is best to speak to a lawyer if you are thinking of applying for a writ of distress. Need a landlord-tenant disputes lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Siraj Shaik Aziz 6 years 18 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes You may also be interested in 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.