Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Last updated on May 8, 2017 This article was contributed by Ms Koh C-u Pinn, who is a Director at Arielle Law Corporation. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of illegal brothels inconspicuously operating out of residential apartments in the heartlands, and frequently in Housing and Development Board flats. If such a situation should arise, would a landlord, tenant and agent of such premises be liable? How can landlords, tenants and agents prevent themselves from being unwilling parties to such illegal activities happening within their premises? How may a landlord, agent or tenant be liable? A landlord, agent, or tenant of any premises may be liable for allowing their premises to be used as an unlicensed brothel unless he is able to prove that he has no knowledge under section 148 of the Women’s Charter. Notably, in a case where the tenant has subletted the premises, which has been used as an illegal brothel, the law further presumes that the tenant had knowledge of the premises being used as a brothel unless he is able to prove otherwise that he had no such knowledge. The rationale for this presumption rests on the fact that the tenant is the only authorised person to access and occupy the premises after the landlord has handed over the keys to the tenant. As such, if the premises are being used for vice activities, the tenant must have known of it and/or sanctioned it, unless he is able to prove otherwise. Under the law, a first-time offender may be fined up to S$3,000 and/or face imprisonment not exceeding 3 years. Repeat offenders may be fined up to S$10,000 and/or face imprisonment not exceeding 5 years. Therefore, once a landlord, agent or a tenant becomes aware of illegal sex trade being conducted in the premises, he has a duty to report such vice activities to the Police. What are some of the precautions that may be taken? Generally, prior to renting out, a landlord and/or the agent would have requested for the identification documents, job(s) and place(s) of employment of the would-be tenant(s). By conducting such due diligence, the landlord and/or the agent would generally have discharged his/her duty of care. As for tenants, they are advised to comply with their tenancy agreement and only permit authorized occupiers (as listed in their tenancy agreement) to reside at the premises so as to ensure that their rented premises are not being misused as an illegal brothel. This article was contributed by Ms Koh C-u Pinn, who is a Director at Arielle Law Corporation. Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Gino Hardial Singh 120 review(s) 24 years experience I’m writing to express the deepest appreciation for Mr Gino and his team’s legal services. They are highly professional and… Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Ray Louis 456 review(s) 16 years experience Mr. Ray Louis & his team are very thoughtful professional in serving my uncle's late will arrangement of paper works.… Read more View all lawyers for Criminal Defence About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.