Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Stamp Duties Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty Last updated on April 19, 2022 Property buyers and investors are well aware that on top of the basic Buyer’s Stamp Duty (BSD) payable on the purchase of a residential property, Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty (ABSD) is also payable if you already own another residential property or you are not a Singapore citizen. This can add up to quite a hefty sum, and greatly reduces the profits which you may have been looking to receive from your property investment. How can you then plan your property purchases to minimise the amount which you may have to pay in taxes? In this article, we will give you pointers on how smart planning by a typical married couple can reduce ABSD liability. History and Purpose of ABSD ABSD was introduced in 2011 as part of a slew of property cooling measures in the face of rising property prices amid strong investment demand by both local and foreign buyers of residential property. Its aim is to stabilise the property market and ensure that prices do not increase or fluctuate drastically. The rates were raised in 2013 to the current levels. Decoupling and Part-Purchase One method for a couple to avoid paying ABSD on a second residential property purchase is to do what is known as a decoupling and part-purchase of the ownership of the first property. This involves separating a couple’s ownership status of the property by removing one spouse from the ownership it. That way, he or she can buy a new property without paying ABSD for what is a second property owned by the couple. This entails: Transfer of ownership through a Sale and Purchase: This works exactly the same way as a normal sale and purchase. A sale and purchase agreement will have to be signed by the parties, and the agreement will have to be stamped. While a transfer of ownership can also be effected by way of a gift by Spouse B to Spouse A of his/her share, it is advisable to go through with a sale and purchase instead. This is because a transfer by way of gift may be set aside as a transaction at an undervalue in the event of bankruptcy. This may have negative implications for the owner looking to sell the property, as it may be more difficult for the potential buyer to obtain a bank loan. Stamp duties: Stamp duties have to be paid within 14 days of the execution of the sale and purchase agreement. BSD will have to be paid, based on the purchase price (or the market value, whichever is higher) of the share of the property being transferred. If the property was purchased less than 4 years ago, then Spouse B will also have to pay Seller’s Stamp Duty (SSD). Again, what is payable is also on the portion of the property being sold (i.e. if Spouse A is buying over 1% of the property from Spouse B, then what is payable is on the purchase price/market value of that 1%). Refund of CPF monies: All CPF monies used by Spouse B towards the purchase of the property will have to be refunded to his/her CPF account together with accrued interest upon completion of the sale. Your lawyer will also have to help you apply for a partial discharge of the CPF Board’s charge over your house, such that Spouse B’s name is removed. The refund of CPF monies can usually be completed within 10 working days of the sale, freeing up Spouse B’s CPF funds for the purchase of a new property. Restructuring and refinancing of bank loan: If you financed the purchase of your property with a bank loan, you will need to speak to your banker about restructuring or refinancing of your home loan. This will typically involve removing Spouse B’s name from the loan. If you are looking to refinance with a different bank, you may read our article on some tips and pointers when refinancing your home loan. If you are looking to complete your part-purchase within a shorter period of time, it may be easier to refinance with your existing bank, as they are more likely to allow for a shorter notice period for redemption of your existing loan if your new loan is also with them. Similar to a normal refinancing process, your lawyers will also assist you in discharging the existing mortgage for the old loan and lodging the mortgage for your new loan. Upon completion of the above transactions, Spouse B can go on to purchase another property without paying ABSD. This is because he or she no longer owns any property. However, decoupling the ownership of Housing Development Board flats might not be possible because the Housing Development Board (HDB) revised its regulations on 1 April 2016 to restrict the transfer of flat ownership. Flat owners will be allowed to transfer the ownership of their flats under six circumstances including marriage, divorce, death of an owner, financial hardship, renunciation of citizenship and medical reasons. All other reasons will be assessed by HDB on a case by case basis. More information on this HDB regulation can be found here. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now CONVEYANCING Examples: Advice on buying and selling property (HDB/private property), decoupling, ABSD etc. Select Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Mohammed Shakirin IRB Law LLP | 6 years experience | English, Malay Shakirin handles general legal work, including but not limited to matters involving aspects of commercial and civil disputes, family law practice, crime, conveyancing as well as corporate practice. Shakirin recognizes the importance of ensuring that clients understand complex legal situations they are in. He takes time to hear clients’ concerns and assist them in the best way he can. Planning Ahead – Ownership Structure of Your Purchase The above process can be shortened if prior to the purchase of the first property, the parties plan ahead. If couples foresee that they may want to buy a second residential property in the near future, they may wish to purchase their first property as tenants-in-common. This removes the need for severing a joint tenancy. The most financially prudent method is of course to have one spouse own 99% while the other owns only 1%. Any future payment of BSD and SSD due to a decoupling will only be payable on that 1% share being transacted. Implications of Arrangement in the Event of Divorce or Death Buying a property as tenants-in-common, as opposed to buying as joint tenants, has implications on inheritance. Buyers who decide on an unequal ownership, such as a 99%-1% tenancy in common, may also be concerned about how their property will be divided in the event of a divorce. As tenants-in-common, the rule of survivorship does not apply. This means that when one of the owners pass on, his or her share will be distributed either according to his or her will, or according to the Intestate Succession Act. This is in contrast to a joint tenancy, where the survivor will by operation of law take ownership of the whole interest in the property. In the event of a divorce, the court will consider all the circumstances of the case before deciding on the division of the property. The court is not bound to divide based on strict legal ownership. You can learn more in our article on how the court divides matrimonial assets. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Serina Goh 36 years 0 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.