Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Buying and selling a property Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child Last updated on July 29, 2022 In Singapore, a house is often more than just a home – many also purchase property as a form of long-term investment. In this respect, parents may be interested to know how they can purchase properties for their children. While a child (i.e. a person below 21 years old) does not have the legal capacity to own a property in their own name as yet, their parents could nevertheless buy a property for him or her by way of a trust, which allows the child to beneficially own the property. This article explains what it means to hold a property “on trust” in Singapore, as well as the legal and practical implications of doing so. What Does It Mean to Hold the Property “On Trust” for a Child? When parents hold the property “on trust” for a child, they will remain the legal owners of the property while the child becomes the beneficial owner of the same. Briefly, the nature of the child’s beneficial ownership is an equitable interest that binds all third-parties except for a bona fide purchaser of the property for value and without notice. Essentially, for the purpose of this article, what this means is that the child is able to assert a proprietary interest in the property against the whole world except for a genuine purchaser who had purchased the property without being informed that it was being held on trust. Implications of Parents Holding Property on Trust for Their Child When a property is held on trust by the parents for their child, any personal creditors of the parents are not entitled to claim the trust property to satisfy any debts owed by the parents to them. Holding the property on trust also means that the parent is responsible for managing the trust property (such as paying the relevant taxes and duties) for the benefit of the child. Further, any economic benefits from the property will accrue to the child. In addition, should the property earn income, this income is considered the statutory income of a trustee (i.e. the party managing the property) and is subject to income tax at a flat rate of 17%. If beneficiaries (i.e. the child) receive a share of the trust income, and they are not ordinarily entitled to it, then their share is not subject to a second round of tax. On the other hand, if beneficiaries ordinarily entitled to a share of the trust income by virtue of a trust deed, then their share of the trust income will be assessed at their own personal income tax rates. At the same time, tax will not be imposed at the trustee level. Such beneficiaries will also be given the same tax exemptions and concessions as accorded to taxpayers who are resident individuals. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now WILLS AND ESTATE PLANNING Examples: Advice on making a will, inheritance, distribution of property, lasting power of attorney, probate etc. Select Select Nadia Moynihan August Law Corporation | 11 years experience | English, Malay Nadia’s practice encompasses Civil and Commercial Litigation, Matrimonial and Syariah Law as well as Criminal Law. She has experience handling cases from State Courts to High Court level. She regularly advises corporate and private clients on schemes of arrangement, bankruptcy proceedings, trade disputes, employment disputes and other contractual claims. Her… Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Che Wei Chin Fervent Chambers | 12 years experience | English, Mandarin Wei Chin is a Director at Fervent Chambers. He has a broad range of practice that includes litigation and providing commercial law advice to clients. In the field of litigation, Wei Chin has handled cases spanning across different courts, including handling High Court applications himself. His wide range of… Select Jeannette Chong-Aruldoss Robert Wang & Woo LLP | 33 years experience | English, Mandarin Working with clients to help them find real solutions to legal issues that are causing them stress and worry isn’t just a job, it’s something I’m passionate about. It’s a calling. I was called to the Singapore Bar in 1989, and have since chalked up three decades of active legal practice. I’ve acquired the experience and knowledge across a diverse range of legal matters, enabling me to bring a broad-based approach to problem-solving. Where a fight is called for, I’ll bring a hands-on and passionate approach to advocating and championing my clients’ interests. Select Lim Shu Fen JS Law Chambers LLP | 6 years experience | English, Mandarin Shu Fen handles both contested and uncontested divorces and/or ancillary matters, variation applications, appeals to High Court, maintenance applications, child-related matters (including custody, care and control, access, guardianship applications etc) and preparation of separation agreements. She also specialises in applications for the Grant of Probate or Grant of Letters of Administration, and can assist in Estate Planning, drafting of Wills and Succession Planning. Select Lim Charmaine Jillian Phipps Tracy Wang Law Practice | 1 year experience | English, Mandarin Charmaine was called to the bar in 2015 and her main areas of practice is family and estate work. With a focus on practical and fair solutions, she works together with clients to achieve amicable outcomes to all parties involved where possible. She firmly believes in therapeutic justice that the Family Court envisions for divorcing couples and is a patient and understanding listener to those requiring legal assistance and advice. Charmaine also provides advice and services related to Probate and Letters of Administration, applications under the Mental Capacity Act for those wishing to be appointed deputies of their loved ones and drafting of Wills. Charmaine is on the panel of assigned solicitors with the Legal Aid Bureau and in 2021, Tracy Wang Law Practice was awarded the Legal Aid Bureau’s Law Firm (Gold) award for their contributions to the Bureau. What Can Trustees Do With the Property? Trustees derive their power from the terms of the trust instrument, which lays out the trustees’ powers to deal with the property. For instance, the trust deed may specify that the trustee will have the power to rent out the trust property for rental income. The Trustees Act also specifically confers certain powers on the trustee, but these powers apply only if they are not contrary to the terms of the trust instrument. Such powers include the power to invest, insure and maintain minors, and also advance the benefit of beneficiaries. Can the Trust Property Be Any Real Estate Property? While both HDB and private properties can be trust property, the creation of a trust over a HDB property requires a prior written approval from the Housing Development Board. When Will the Legal Title Pass to the Child? Can This Be Specified in the Trust? For a fixed trust, a trust may be terminated and the legal title be passed to the child by all the trustees if the beneficiaries are of full age, under no disability and absolutely entitled under the trust. On the other hand, if parents intend for their child to inherit the property at a later time, then the trust deed should expressly state the age or the occasion at which their child will inherit the property. How Can Parents Protect Their Interests? You can choose to elect an alternative beneficiary to prevent the gift from failing if one beneficiary dies before you. Formal Legal Procedures to Set Up a Trust Over Property A trust is set up upon: The execution of a trust deed, or Deed of Settlement, being executed between the settlor (the person making the trust) and a trustee (the person who will manage the trust, and who can also be the settlor); and The transfer of assets into the trust. In executing the Deed of Settlement, the settlor must decide the key terms of the trust, including: Who the initial beneficiaries are Who will be appointed as trustee of the trust What powers the settlor wishes to retain, if any For the setting up of trusts over property that do not involve changes in the property’s beneficial interest (e.g. the child is made the beneficial owner of the property right when it is purchased), the trust deed will need to be stamped at a fixed duty of $10. Properties to be purchased to be held on trust will have to be fully paid for in cash. CPF monies cannot be used for the purchase. Banks are also unlikely to extend a loan for the purchasing of property on trust. An additional buyer’s stamp duty of 35% will also apply to residential property that is being purchased to be held on trust for a beneficiary (such as a child) while the settlor is still alive. A caveat can also be lodged on the child’s behalf to protect the property. This article provides only a general guide on the topic. You may wish to speak to a trusts lawyer to understand the finer details and/or alternatives to creating a trust. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Lim Kim Hong 36 years 10 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.