Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Neighbour Disputes Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? Last updated on April 3, 2023 The issue of ceiling leaks dragging on for months and even years without being resolved due to uncooperative neighbours has been in the news recently, with Minister of National Development Khaw Boon Wan calling for more power to be given to the Housing Development Board (HDB) to enter flats to carry out repairs. So what can you do if you are suffering from a ceiling leak? The situation differs depending on where you are staying. HDB Flats For HDB flats, the responsibility for maintaining the flats and fixing the leakages falls on both the upper and lower floor flats. After informing HDB and/or Town Council, HDB will usually assist in the investigations to determine the source of the leak and to ensure that repairs needed are made. In the case of ceiling leakage between the upper and lower floor flats, under the lease, the upper and lower floor flat owners are jointly responsible for the repair of the party structure (the floor slab between the flats). This is according to the HDB Residents’ Handbook. A contractor should be jointly engaged for repairs and the costs should be split 50-50. For those staying on the topmost floor of the flat, as the leakage is from the roof of the block, and as the roof is part of the common property maintained by the Town Council, you should contact the Town Council in your area for repairs. HDB also has a Goodwill Repair Assistance scheme to render assistance to HDB flat owners referred by the Grassroots Advisers of their estates. HDB will co-pay 50% of the repair cost, with the remainder cost split between the 2 flat owners (i.e., the upper and lower flat owners). Each flat owner will thus only have to pay 25% each for the repair costs, subject to a maximum of $300 per repair location. For rental flats, however, HDB will bear the full cost of the repair. In the case of uncooperative neighbours, grassroots leaders may be involved to mediate when needed. As a last resort, HDB will initiate legal action. It may take a few months for the situation to be resolved, allowing for investigations and repairs to be made and the complexity of the problem, and longer depending on how cooperative the flat owners are. Private Non-Landed Estates In the case of ceiling leakage for private non-landed estates, the relevant law is governed by the Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act, which is administered by the Strata Titles Board. According to the Act, the upper floor is presumed liable for the leakage and thus the repairs unless he can prove to the contrary. Thus, the upper and lower floor flats are required to jointly carry out an investigation to determine the cause of the leak and proceed with repairs. You should also involve your condominium’s Management Corporation when necessary. If an amicable resolution is not able to be achieved, the flat owner can make an application to the Strata Titles Board to resolve the problem. The STB is a tribunal, which will fairly evaluate the situation based on the evidence and mediate between the parties. There is an application fee of $500 which covers two mediation sessions and hearings conducted by industry experts. You may apply for the $500 fee to be paid by the other party (i.e., the respondent) in your application, by making a claim against the respondent for the reimbursement of the fee. After hearing both parties, the STB will make an order which is enforceable in the State Courts, including whether the respondent is to reimburse the fees. For more information, read the Strata Living in Singapore guide by the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore and the FAQ by the STB. This article is contributed by Denise Ee, a student at NUS School of Law. Need a civil litigation lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Radika Mariapan 14 years 19 reviews Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Amos Cai 12 years 25 reviews Ronald JJ Wong 11 years 56 reviews Walter Silvester 17 years 64 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Civil Litigation You may also be interested in Are You a Freelancer Whose Client Owes You Payment? Here’s What You Can Do Falsehoods vs. Defamatory Statements: What’s the Difference? Can Directors be Liable for Company Debts in Singapore? What Can You Do if You Were Sold a Defective Product in Singapore? A Guide to Getting Legal Aid in Singapore Your Consumer Rights in Singapore and How to Get Recourse Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Amos Cai 25 review(s) 12 years experience I recently engaged Amos from Yuen Law to understand my Legal position and options while facing a claim of Liquidation… Read more Radika Mariapan 19 review(s) 14 years experience We are based overseas with international clients including Singaporean clients. We engaged Fidelis Law Corporation to represent us in a… Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more View all lawyers for Civil Litigation About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.