What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Buying and selling a property What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? Last updated on December 12, 2023 In Singapore, the Estate Agents Act establishes certain rules regulating estate agent duties and property transactions. Duties of an estate agent By way of the regulations, property agents, also known as estate agents, are no longer allowed to represent both seller/landlord and buyer/tenant for the same property transaction. They may only represent one side of transaction, to avoid a conflict of interest. Additionally, estate agents are duty-bound to avoid any other potential conflicts of interest (such as if a party to the transaction is related to the agent) unless the client’s waiver is obtained. The regulations also prohibit estate agents from referring their clients to moneylenders, to discourage irresponsible buying. Agents are also prohibited from holding or handling money on behalf of any party in relation to the sale or purchase of any property situated in Singapore, and the lease of HDB property. Furthermore, under the Estate Agents Act, estate agents are required to conduct due diligence measures on their clients to prevent money laundering and terrorism financing. Failure to do so put estate agents at risk of financial penalties and suspension/revocation of their licence. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now CONVEYANCING Examples: Advice on buying and selling property (HDB/private property), decoupling, ABSD etc. Select Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Mohammed Shakirin IRB Law LLP | 6 years experience | English, Malay Shakirin handles general legal work, including but not limited to matters involving aspects of commercial and civil disputes, family law practice, crime, conveyancing as well as corporate practice. Shakirin recognizes the importance of ensuring that clients understand complex legal situations they are in. He takes time to hear clients’ concerns and assist them in the best way he can. Estate agent licence requirement All estate agents have to pass a professional examination to obtain an estate agent license in Singapore. Furthermore, they are also obliged to undertake mandatory continuing professional development, prescribed by the Council for Estate Agencies. Estate agents are obliged to display their licence card, and clients have a right to demand to see them. — As of 2023, there are over 34,000 estate agents in Singapore. If you have a legitimate grievance against your estate agent, you should lodge a complaint with either the agent’s firm, or the Council for Estate Agencies, Singapore’s regulatory body overseeing estate agency matters. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Low Seow Ling 11 years 0 reviews Serina Goh 36 years 0 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.