Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Last updated on August 4, 2021 When it comes to living together with family members and loved ones, things can oftentimes get messy. It is a reality of life. Despite the presence of family ties, it is understandable and not unreasonable to eventually conclude that living apart might be the better option and in the best interests of all involved. In some cases, such steps may have to be taken out of necessity and to protect oneself or the other members of the family. In all such cases, however, it is important to anticipate that the family member asked to leave the property will not agree nor willingly move out. What can be done then? In this article, we will set out to address some common scenarios in Singapore where one might have no alternative but to take steps to evict a family member from the property, such as: Evicting a spouse in the case of divorce (before, during and after) Evicting children from the property Evicting an abusive family member Evicting a family member who is paying rent Evicting a family member who is not an owner of the property Before going further, it would be helpful to consider as a starting point whether that family member has any ownership or interest in the property (e.g. whether the family member is a joint tenant or tenant-in-common of the property). If so, this may, on the face of it, entitle that family member to certain rights or entitlements in respect of the property. However, there may be exceptional circumstances to this, which we will deal with further below. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now CONVEYANCING Examples: Advice on buying and selling property (HDB/private property), decoupling, ABSD etc. Select Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Mohammed Shakirin IRB Law LLP | 6 years experience | English, Malay Shakirin handles general legal work, including but not limited to matters involving aspects of commercial and civil disputes, family law practice, crime, conveyancing as well as corporate practice. Shakirin recognizes the importance of ensuring that clients understand complex legal situations they are in. He takes time to hear clients’ concerns and assist them in the best way he can. Evicting a Spouse in the Case of Divorce (Commenced and/or Concluded) In most marriages, it is likely that the spouses would have some ownership or interest in the property. In the absence of any other private written agreement between the parties or documentary evidence that reflects some other arrangement, it is reasonable to assume that both spouses would have the right to remain on the property because of their ownership. As a result, where the spouses are co-owners, whether by a joint tenancy or tenancy-in-common, one spouse may not ordinarily evict the other as both have a right to remain on the property. Even in the case where the property is registered in the name of only one spouse (A) during the course of the marriage, it could be argued that the other spouse (B) nonetheless has some equitable interest in the property so as to keep bound by such interests. It would then be argued that A should not be able to evict B. However, as this may include a consideration of other (more complex) principles on the law of trusts and equity, it would be best to consult a lawyer on these further issues if they seem to be applicable to your case. In Singapore, the commencement of divorce proceedings itself does not immediately entitle either party to evict the other from the property. The ordinary rules of property law and ownership continue to apply when the marriage still subsists, as explained above. If a spouse is abusive however, then the other party may consider filing a Domestic Exclusion Order when commencing divorce proceedings to exclude the abusive spouse from the property (as will be explained below). In addition, when the court exercises its powers to divide the matrimonial assets in the course of matrimonial/divorce proceedings, this may have the effect of changing the ownership rights between parties such that one party is no longer entitled to stay in the property. For instance, if full ownership of the property is to be transferred to one particular spouse (A) by way of a court order upon division of the matrimonial assets, this would potentially have the effect of giving A the right to full occupation and usage of the property, with the accompanying right to have his/her spouse leave the property. This could be done by seeking an enforcement of the court order that made this division (which may also include a notice for a penalty for the failure to comply with such court order). One may also consider the commencement of legal proceedings with a claim for possession of the property. Evicting Children From Property Where the situation potentially involves evicting a child, the primary consideration would be one of whether that child is a minor and requires the provision of lodging and accommodation as part of the welfare provisions of children under the law. The main statutes relating to children include the Guardianship of Infants Act (GIA), the Women’s Charter (WC), and the Children and Young Persons Act (CYPA). Under the WC, a child is defined as an individual being below the age of 21. In this regard, the WC expresses at section 68 the principle that parents have a responsibility to maintain a child whether or not that child lives with him/her. Further, section 3 of the GIA states that the welfare of an infant (or individual below the age of 21) is the first and most important consideration in any court proceedings relating to the upbringing of that infant (amongst other things). Reading all this together with other supporting legislation that clearly offers protection and provision for the welfare of children, such as the GIA and the CYPA, it would be argued that parents do have a responsibility to provide their minor children with such proper lodging and accommodation. In other words, all the above strongly indicates that it is unlikely that one can evict a child under the age of 21, as this would be considered as acting against the welfare of the child and depriving that child of lodging or accommodation (subject to the applicability of the other categories below). Evicting Abusive Family Members From Property Sadly, this is a more common scenario than most people would imagine. In such cases, the interests, protection and safety of a victimised (or potentially victimised) family member(s) would certainly be a foremost consideration. In such a scenario, section 65 of the WC states that a court may grant the “right of exclusive occupation” for the whole or part of a shared residence upon application of a party. This means that a party is given the right to occupy that particular property exclusively, and to keep someone else out (i.e. the other party). This is regardless of whether the shared residence is solely or jointly owned, or leased, by the party against whom the application is being made (in this case, the abuser). This power is exercised when one makes an application for a Personal Protection Order /Domestic Exclusion Order (DEO). A DEO is an order that gives a family member the right to exclude the other party/family member from the property under certain circumstances. It is typically granted only if the court is satisfied on balance that it is “necessary for the protection or personal safety” of the party who applied for it. A DEO may also be applied for together with the commencement of divorce proceedings if necessary. However, it is important to note as well that the DEO may be made only against a “family member”, who are defined as the following: A spouse or former spouse of the person; A child of the person, including an adopted child and a step-child; A father or mother of the person; A father-in-law or mother-in-law of the person; A brother or sister of the person; or Any other relative of the person or an incapacitated person who in the opinion of the court should, in the circumstances, in either case be regarded as a member of the family of the person. The application may be made by way of issuing a summons, accompanied by supporting details and information as to why the application is necessary. In addition to law firms/lawyers, there are various agencies that are able to assist you with such applications. The family justice system is also designed to enable you to make the application without significant legal assistance in a straight-forward case. However, where you are uncertain or have a complex case scenario, it would be best to consult a lawyer for a further opinion. Further helpful information may also be found on the Family Justice Courts’ website. Evicting a Family Member Who is Paying Rent If a family member is paying rent and has been given exclusive possession of the property or any part of it, it might be possible for you to argue that there is a tenancy in operation and that the family member is therefore considered a tenant. This may possibly be raised as an argument even if there is no written tenancy agreement between the parties. In such a situation, that family member may be evicted in the same manner as any other tenant. In order to do so, the circumstances should present the right reasons or basis for eviction or termination of the tenancy. Typically, as a landlord, you should provide notice of the breach of tenancy and offer an opportunity for the tenant to rectify such breach if possible before you take further action. For instance, section 18 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act states that a landlord should give the tenant notice that a breach has taken place (for example, failure to pay rent) and require the tenant to correct the breach within a reasonable period of time. The correction of the breach would in some cases depend on whether the breach can be corrected or compensated with money in the first place. If there is no resolution to this attempt to resolve the problem, one may then consider making an application to re-enter and repossess the property, and thereafter seek an eviction of the tenant/family member by issuing a writ of possession. A re-entry and repossession may still be possible even if the tenant/family member has exclusive occupation of one part of the property (for example, if the family member is paying to stay in a particular room in the property). Evicting a Family Member Who is Not an Owner of the Property Where a family member is not an owner of the property, there may be little immediate or obvious reasons as to why he/she could argue that they have a right to occupy and use the premises (and not be evicted). In the case of public housing (i.e. HDB flats) however, it is relevant to note that there is a category of persons known as the essential occupier/occupier. Such an occupier of the property does not immediately have legal interests in the property in the way that a legal owner/co-owner would. However, depending on the facts of the case, it might be possible to argue that he/she has some kind of equitable interest in the property so as to have a reason to remain on the premises. For instance, if an essential occupier can show direct financial contribution to the purchase of the property, this may under the right circumstances form the basis to argue that there is a trust in operation that gives the contributing party equitable interests in the property, such that they have a reason to remain on the premises. There are many different ways in which such similar arguments could arise. If so, this would involve a consideration of more complex, complicated legal principles and concepts such as constructive or resulting trusts and proprietary estoppel, amongst others. If you believe that your case involves such a situation, it is strongly advisable that you seek the input of a lawyer to gain some perspective before proceeding further. — The circumstances leading to someone considering eviction of a family member can be as complicated and messy as family relationships themselves. It is never an easy step to take, and it is important to therefore ensure that one’s rights, as well as responsibilities towards that family member, are properly considered before such drastic action is taken. The above is meant to simply provide a broad overview and guide you as to some common situations that may arise. However, it is certainly advisable for you to bring your matter to a lawyer for full and complete legal advice so that you may proceed with the confidence that you are doing so within your rights and entitlements as an owner of the property. — This article was written by Jonathan Cho. Need a landlord-tenant disputes lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Siraj Shaik Aziz 6 years 18 reviews Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes You may also be interested in 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.