How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Last updated on May 20, 2024 There are various reasons why a co-owner may want to buy a fellow co-owner’s share of the property that they own, the process of which is known as “de-coupling”. De-coupling results in the property being solely owned by a single owner, with the previous co-owner usually becoming an authorised occupier. This process has been called an “open secret”, as it effectively allows the previous co-owner to be free to purchase another property without having to incur the Additional Buyers’ Stamp Duty (ABSD) on the second property they share. This article explores the procedures, as well as any limitations, involved in the de-coupling process. Methods of De-Coupling Generally, there are two methods of carrying out de-coupling: (1) ownership in the property may be transferred by way of gift or (2) it may be transferred through a sale of the part share in the property. 1. Transfer by way of gift Transferring the property by way of gift refers to a transfer in which no consideration is paid to the exiting co-owner, e.g. when a co-owner transfers his share in the property for $0. Generally, such a transfer will only be valid when the property is unencumbered, for example, when there is no outstanding mortgage, or CPF charge on the property. Otherwise, there must be an adequate sum to repay the outstanding loan or refund of CPF funds for the transfer to occur. 2. Transfer by way of sale The second method of de-coupling involves the sale of the exiting co-owner’s part share to the other co-owner. The rules governing de-coupling for private properties and Housing & Development Board (HDB) flats differ, both of which are explained below. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now CONVEYANCING Examples: Advice on buying and selling property (HDB/private property), decoupling, ABSD etc. Select Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Mohammed Shakirin IRB Law LLP | 6 years experience | English, Malay Shakirin handles general legal work, including but not limited to matters involving aspects of commercial and civil disputes, family law practice, crime, conveyancing as well as corporate practice. Shakirin recognizes the importance of ensuring that clients understand complex legal situations they are in. He takes time to hear clients’ concerns and assist them in the best way he can. De-Coupling for Private Properties and HDB Flats Private properties The procedure for purchasing a part share of private property is rather flexible. Generally, three essential elements to the contract for the purchase of the part share should be specified: the property, price and the parties. It is best for the sale to be concluded by a formal contract in writing and signed by the parties, as this would allow the agreement to be enforceable, fulfilling section 6(d) of the Civil Law Act. Manner of holding matters: Joint tenancy versus tenancy-in-common Co-owners who own the property as tenants-in-common can de-couple. This is because tenants-in-common own the property in undivided shares, which essentially means that each co-owner owns their specified share in the property. Thus, it is possible for one co-owner to transfer their specified share in the property to the other co-owner. In contrast, co-owners who own the property as joint tenants will not be able to de-couple. Joint tenancy is a form of co-ownership in which there are no shares – this means that the co-owners both own the property as a whole interest. Thus, for as long as the manner of holding is a joint tenancy, it would be impossible to de-couple as they are viewed as owning the property as one entire share. Notwithstanding the above, de-coupling is not completely off the table for joint tenants. Joint tenants can de-couple if they perform the act of severance to become tenants in common. There are several ways to perform severance for joint tenants. A common way of severance is carried out through deed or registration. This is performed through a unilateral declaration, by lodging and registering the Instrument of Declaration with the Singapore Land Authority. The co-owner must then serve a copy of the Instrument of Declaration personally or by registered post on the other joint tenants. Please refer to our article on converting a joint tenancy to a tenancy-in-common for more comprehensive article on severance as well as the differences between the two. HDB flats Currently, HDB flat owners are not allowed to transfer their ownership (whether joint tenancy or tenancy-in-common) to their spouse through a gift or sale of their part share in the property, with the exception of specific circumstances. For example, the existing flat owners may transfer their flat ownership to immediate family members if the proposed owners meet all the eligibility conditions, which include the following: A change in the existing family structure (such as divorce, marriage or the demise of an owner); The proposed owners, both remaining and incoming, must be able to take ownership of the flat under one of the existing eligibility schemes, such as the Public Scheme, or the Joint Singles Scheme; The proposed owners must not be an existing owner or be listed as the essential occupier of another HDB flat. In the limited circumstances stated above, the co-owner who wishes to transfer their flat ownership will then have to do the following: Consent to the proposed owner(s) taking over the ownership of the flat, and then submit an application for a transfer of flat ownership with the necessary supporting documents to the relevant HDB Branch for assessment and approval. Next, if the proposed owners are assessed to be eligible for the transfer of the flat ownership, the existing and proposed owners will receive an in-principle approval letter. Finally, the existing and proposed owners will receive a notification to attend an appointment at the HDB Branch office to execute the legal documents and make payment for all fees relating to the transaction. It is compulsory for all existing and proposed owners, along with their spouses, to attend this appointment personally on the same day to complete the transaction. If you are considering buying your co-owners share in a property, it is strongly recommended that you consult a conveyancing lawyer for further advice and guidance on the processes involved. You can start your search here. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Abdul Rohim Sarip 34 years 5 reviews Low Seow Ling 11 years 0 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.