Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Last updated on April 5, 2020 What is a Security Deposit? The payment of a security deposit to a landlord is typically required of tenants when renting property and entering into a tenancy agreement. In Singapore, security deposits are around 1-2 months’ rent for most residential tenancies. The landlord can use the security deposit for whatever purposes are stated in the tenancy agreement, usually to offset any losses caused by the tenant’s breach of the tenancy agreement and/or damage to the property. When the rental period expires, the security deposit is refunded to the tenant (minus any deductions). How is a security deposit different from a good faith deposit? A security deposit is distinct from a good faith deposit, which is merely to reserve a particular property for the prospective tenant paying it until a formal tenancy agreement can be signed. How Much Will the Security Deposit be? It is up to the tenant and the landlord to negotiate an amount of a security deposit that is acceptable to them both. However, as mentioned above, it is customary to have a security deposit of an amount equivalent to 1-2 months rent in Singapore. When is the Security Deposit Payable? The security deposit is usually payable either at the time the tenancy agreement is entered into or at the time the tenancy commences, as the parties may agree. What Can the Security Deposit be Used For? Offset unpaid rent at the end of the tenancy A landlord could use a security deposit to offset any unpaid rent at the end of the tenancy. However, it would be a breach of contract for a tenant to intentionally withhold payment of rent towards the end of the tenancy to force a landlord to rely on the security deposit for payment. This would likely give the landlord grounds to commence legal action against the tenant from breach of contract. Nevertheless, the landlord would have to show some proof of damage when commencing legal action against the tenant. For example, damage to property where the cost of repair could not be deducted from the security deposit because it was all used to cover the unpaid rent. If there is no damage to property and no other legitimate reason to deduct any amount from the security deposit, then there may be some scenarios in which it may be advisable for tenants to breach the tenancy agreement by withholding the last month of rent. An example of such a scenario would be where the landlord has a demonstrated track record of dishonesty and there are reasonable grounds to believe he has no intention of returning the security deposit regardless of the condition of the property at the end of the tenancy. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES Examples: Advice on landlord-tenant agreements, eviction of tenants, rental deposits and termination of agreement. Select Select Nadia Moynihan August Law Corporation | 11 years experience | English, Malay Nadia’s practice encompasses Civil and Commercial Litigation, Matrimonial and Syariah Law as well as Criminal Law. She has experience handling cases from State Courts to High Court level. She regularly advises corporate and private clients on schemes of arrangement, bankruptcy proceedings, trade disputes, employment disputes and other contractual claims. Her… Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Che Wei Chin Fervent Chambers | 12 years experience | English, Mandarin Wei Chin is a Director at Fervent Chambers. He has a broad range of practice that includes litigation and providing commercial law advice to clients. In the field of litigation, Wei Chin has handled cases spanning across different courts, including handling High Court applications himself. His wide range of… Select Jeannette Chong-Aruldoss Robert Wang & Woo LLP | 33 years experience | English, Mandarin Working with clients to help them find real solutions to legal issues that are causing them stress and worry isn’t just a job, it’s something I’m passionate about. It’s a calling. I was called to the Singapore Bar in 1989, and have since chalked up three decades of active legal practice. I’ve acquired the experience and knowledge across a diverse range of legal matters, enabling me to bring a broad-based approach to problem-solving. Where a fight is called for, I’ll bring a hands-on and passionate approach to advocating and championing my clients’ interests. Can the security deposit be used to cover ordinary wear and tear? There generally should be no deductions from a security deposit for ordinary wear and tear. This includes reasonable fraying of rugs or small scuffs on the wall and accordingly, things like routine repainting of walls should not be borne by the tenant’s security deposit. This is unless the tenant has actually damaged the wall in some way that would exceed reasonable wear and tear. When Should the Landlord Return My Security Deposit? The security deposit, less any appropriate deductions, should usually be returned within a reasonable time following the termination of the tenancy, subject to the terms of the tenancy agreement. A 7-day, 14-day or 30-day period after the termination of the tenancy, to allow the landlord to assess the cost of any repairs that may be required by the tenants’ actions or omissions, would not be unusual. It is advisable to include a clause in the tenancy agreement setting a firm deadline for the refund of the security deposit. Landlord Not Returning the Security Deposit: What to Do There have been cases in Singapore of landlords not returning their tenants’ security deposits within the period stated in the tenancy agreement. The landlord should not be entitled to do this if you have fully adhered to the terms in the tenancy agreement. If your landlord refuses to return your security deposit, ask the landlord to substantiate his decision. If he refuses to do so, consider sending a letter of demand. As a last resort, you may file a claim in the Small Claims Tribunals. Read on for more information on each step: 1. Ask the landlord to substantiate his decision If your landlord refuses to return your security deposit, ask him to provide his reasons in writing and to substantiate any deductions with receipts or invoices for repairs. 2. Send a letter of demand If the landlord refuses to substantiate his decision to withhold your security deposit, engage a lawyer to send a letter of demand, which can often be a quick and relatively affordable way to recover your deposit. A letter of demand will set out a list of demands for the landlord to comply with, or legal action will be commenced. Many landlords assume that tenants, particularly foreign residents who may be leaving the country, don’t know their rights and/or do not have the know-how to enforce them. A letter of demand from a lawyer is often all that is required to dispense with that misconception. 3. File a claim with the Small Claims Tribunals If sending a letter of demand doesn’t work, or if you can’t afford to engage a lawyer to send a letter of demand, you can file a claim with the Small Claims Tribunals by yourself for a nominal fee if your security deposit amount is not more than S$20,000. If your security deposit has been wrongfully withheld, the tribunal will usually order the landlord to refund it. However, if the tribunal makes the wrong decision, its decision is not subject to appeal except on a few technical grounds. You also need to be physically present in Singapore to take this route. Otherwise, you will need to engage a lawyer to file your claim in the Magistrate’s Court instead. Depending on the amount of your security deposit, this may not be economically feasible. Read our other article on filing a claim with the Small Claims Tribunals. What Can I Do to Safeguard My Security Deposit? Prevention is better than cure. Hence, at the time the tenancy agreement is entered into, tenants should take the following steps to ensure that their security deposits will be returned: Review the tenancy agreement. Ensure that the circumstances in which the security deposit can be retained are clearly set out and agreeable to you. This includes specifying a deadline after the termination of the tenancy for the return of the security deposit, in the tenancy agreement. If the circumstances for the retaining of the security deposit are not agreeable to you, propose amendments and do not sign unless the landlord amends accordingly. Ideally, the landlord should provide a detailed inventory of all the furniture or other items in the property. This is so that he cannot later claim that there were other items which have now gone missing and must be replaced using your security deposit. Upon inspecting the property, take note of any existing damage. Take photographs and/or videos and have the landlord acknowledge in writing that this damage pre-dated your tenancy. This will preclude the landlord from later claiming that you caused this damage and that the cost of rectifying it must therefore be deducted from your security deposit. Avoid breaching the terms of the tenancy agreement and avoid damaging the property. If you have good reason to believe that the landlord wrongfully intends to withhold your security deposit, withhold the last month’s rent to offset your future loss. However, be aware that such withholding could also cause you to breach the tenancy agreement, and give the landlord the right to commence legal action against you or re-enter the premises for non-payment of rent. If your landlord is withholding your security deposit, read the clauses of your tenancy agreement carefully to understand both your and your landlord’s rights and obligations under the agreement before deciding what to do next. If in doubt, consult a lawyer. Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.