Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Last updated on April 1, 2022 When Can I Evict a Tenant? Eviction is often the most straight-forward option that provides the most certainty to landlords for the removal of errant tenants, thus preventing future breaches of tenancy. There are a number of scenarios in which you (the landlord) may want to evict a tenant (i.e remove a tenant from your property/land). However, the only scenario in which you can legally do so is when the tenant has breached their tenancy agreement. The kinds of breaches which may most reasonably give rise to a need to evict include: Failure to pay rent or consistently paying rent late; Causing damage to property; and Conducting illegal activity which creates legal liability for a landlord, e.g. subletting to illegal immigrants. If your tenant has committed one of the above breaches and you are looking to evict them, read on to learn how you can do so in Singapore. Alternatively, if the person you are looking to evict is a family member, then please refer to our other article on evicting a family member from your property instead. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now CONVEYANCING Examples: Advice on buying and selling property (HDB/private property), decoupling, ABSD etc. Select Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Mohammed Shakirin IRB Law LLP | 6 years experience | English, Malay Shakirin handles general legal work, including but not limited to matters involving aspects of commercial and civil disputes, family law practice, crime, conveyancing as well as corporate practice. Shakirin recognizes the importance of ensuring that clients understand complex legal situations they are in. He takes time to hear clients’ concerns and assist them in the best way he can. The Eviction Process To evict a tenant in Singapore, follow these steps: Send a written termination of tenancy notice to the tenant Obtain a court order to enforce a tenancy notice Apply for an enforcement order for possession of property Evict the tenant 1. Send a written termination of tenancy notice to the tenant The tenancy notice should explicitly state the breach of the tenancy for which the tenant is being evicted. If the breach is capable of remedy, the tenancy notice should state how the tenant can remedy the breach in order to continue the tenancy. For non-payment of rent for example, the tenant can be required to pay the rent. For damage to property on the other hand, the tenancy notice can require the tenant can pay the repair/replacement cost of the damaged property. The tenancy notice should also: Give notice of the number of days provided in the tenancy agreement for termination; and Inform the tenant that they are required to vacate the property by no later than the end of the notice period. If this works and the tenant moves out, great. If not, having given the tenant every opportunity to comply with the terms of the tenancy agreement, you can now go to court to enforce it. 2. Obtain a court order to enforce the tenancy notice To enforce the tenancy notice, you will first need to obtain a judgment in your favour. If the tenant owes you rent/damages of up to $20,000, you may be able to obtain this in the Small Claims Tribunals. Otherwise, depending on the amount owed, you may need to file a claim in Magistrate’s Court or District Court. Check with your lawyer if in doubt. 3. Apply for an enforcement order for possession of property Once you have a court order requiring the tenant to pay you a certain sum, and assuming the tenant refuses to comply with that court order, you can then enforce the order by applying for an enforcement order for possession of property (previously known as a “writ of possession”). An enforcement order for possession of property will enable a Sheriff (an enforcement officer of the court) to take possession of items belonging to the tenant to recover the debt owed to you. In the event of eviction for non-payment of rent (as opposed to any other reason for eviction), the court will give the tenant 4 weeks to pay all the rent owed. If the tenant fails to do so, the court will grant the application for the enforcement order for possession of property. For cases involving other reasons for eviction, the tenant is also entitled to apply to court to resist eviction. The court will then decide whether to grant the enforcement order for possession of property. If the court grants an application for an enforcement order for possession of property, it will issue a Notice of Eviction to the tenant, informing him of the date and time to vacate the property/land. You will also be informed of this date and time via an appointment letter issued by the Sheriff. 4. Evict the tenant On the date and time of eviction, you or an agent must be present at the property for the execution of the writ and eviction. The Sheriff and/or a Bailiff (empowered by the Sheriff to execute court orders) will also attend and will enter the property by force, if necessary. You will need to pay an attendance fee for them to attend. They will serve papers on the tenant, make an inventory of all the items in the property, seize those items to be sold to satisfy the tenant’s debt to you and evict the tenant from the premises. Tenants who remain in the premises after the end of their tenancy can be charged double the rent without prior notice until they have vacated the property. After the Eviction After successful eviction, the tenant is not allowed to re-enter the premises without your permission. It is advisable to change the locks before leasing the property to a new tenant in case the tenant has made copies of the keys. Alternatives to Eviction Eviction is a drastic option which you may wish to leave as a last resort if the tenant is otherwise reliable. Nevertheless, if the tenant has stopped paying rent and continues to live in the property but you are not yet ready to deal with the hassle of finding a replacement tenant, an alternative is to apply for a writ of distress. This is a court order for the tenant to pay you the rent and it allows you to have a bailiff seize the tenant’s possessions and keep them until he pays the rent, or sell them to cover the cost of the rent if he doesn’t. It also allows the tenancy to continue and for the tenant to continue living in the property. For more information, please refer to our other article on applying for a writ of distress. If you need legal advice on evicting a problematic tenant, please consult a lawyer. Need a landlord-tenant disputes lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Siraj Shaik Aziz 6 years 18 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes You may also be interested in 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.