Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Last updated on March 4, 2024 Before renting a property in Singapore and signing your tenancy agreement, your landlord might ask you to sign a letter of intent. This article will explain: What is a letter of intent? What terms are generally included in a letter of intent? What should you do before signing a letter of intent? What happens after you’ve signed a letter of intent? How can you get a letter of intent template? What is a Letter of Intent? A letter of intent shows that you intend to enter into a tenancy agreement with your landlord. While a letter of intent is not legally binding and not all landlords will ask for a letter of intent, providing one is important as it shows that you are no longer looking at other possible properties to rent. Likewise, your landlord will not look for other prospective tenants after receiving a signed letter of intent from you. What Terms are Generally Included in a Letter of Intent? A letter of intent generally includes terms typically covered in a tenancy agreement, such as the terms of the lease, payment of security and good faith deposits and a diplomatic clause. This is because the letter of intent shows an intention to enter into the tenancy agreement, and should thus reflect the terms that will be included in the tenancy agreement. These clauses will be discussed further below. Terms of the lease The letter of intent will provide for the terms of the lease, such as the rental amount and lease duration. The lease duration is usually two years. It is rare to find a lease for durations below 12 months. Security deposit The letter of intent will also provide for the payment of a security deposit. The security deposit is generally 1 month’s rent for a year’s lease, and 2 months’ rent for a 2-year lease. The security deposit may serve as compensation to your landlord if you damage the property due to negligence, or if you end the lease early. Good faith deposit The good faith deposit is paid on providing the signed letter of intent. It shows that you are serious about renting the property. The sum is generally 1 month’s rent for a year’s lease, and 2 months’ rent for a 2-year lease. While they may seem similar, there are several key differences between the good faith and security deposits: First, the good faith and security deposits serve different purposes. The security deposit serves as compensation in the event that you damage the property due to negligence or if you end the lease early. On the other hand, the good faith deposit serves to signal your intention to lease the property from the landlord. Second, the good faith and security deposits are to be paid at different times. The good faith deposit must be paid upon signing the letter of intent while the security deposit has to be paid upon entering into a tenancy agreement. Note that the good faith deposit may become a part of the security deposit or a rental advance when you sign the tenancy agreement with your landlord. In such circumstances, you will need to pay only the balance of the security deposit to your landlord, if any. Additionally, the security deposit will be kept for the duration of your lease and will be returned to you when the lease ends and there’s no reason for the landlord to withhold it. Diplomatic clause The diplomatic clause allows you to end the rental contract before the lease is up by giving due notice (typically at least 2 months). This clause applies for leases above 12 months in length. If you are an expatriate, you should state in the letter of intent that you want this clause in your tenancy agreement, in the event that you need to leave Singapore and thus terminate your lease agreement early. Specific requests Because your letter of intent should include the terms that you and your landlord have agreed on, you should ensure that clauses that you intend to include in your tenancy agreement are included in the letter of intent. The letter of intent will also provide for any specific requests you might have regarding the property, such as requests relating to the furniture. For instance, you might request your landlord to replace existing furniture that is in poor condition. What Should You Do Before Signing a Letter of Intent? Before submitting the letter of intent and paying the good faith deposit to your landlord, you should check that he or she is the owner of the property. This is important because you may fall victim to fraud otherwise. There have been cases where tenants have paid deposits to fraudsters who were not the owners of the property, and these fraudsters made off with the deposits paid. There are at least three ways of verifying the identity of your landlord: One way is to get your landlord to sign into the Singapore Land Authority’s MyProperty portal to check the HDB flat or private properties that he owns. If you are renting a HDB flat, you can also ask your landlord to sign into his HDB account. Alternatively, you can check his ownership using the IRAS myTax portal on your own by paying $2.50 for each search. What Happens After You’ve Signed a Letter of Intent? When you submit your letter of intent to your landlord, your landlord will countersign the letter of intent. You should also pay the good faith deposit directly to your landlord instead of your property agent. This is because there have been cases of agents absconding with the good faith deposit. After both you and your landlord have signed the letter of intent and you have paid the good faith deposit, your landlord will send you a draft tenancy agreement within the agreed time frame. You will then have some time, as agreed by you and your landlord, to review the agreement and sign it. If you back out of renting the property after signing the letter of intent, the good faith deposit will be forfeited. However, you can get the good faith deposit back if you and your landlord cannot agree on the terms of the tenancy agreement, or if your landlord changes his/her mind and decides not to rent the property to you. How Can You Get a Letter of Intent Template? As the tenant, your property agent might provide you with a template for the letter of intent. If you are unsure of the terms in the letter of intent or the tenancy agreement, you should consult a conveyancing lawyer. A conveyancing lawyer can help you to review the letter of intent and tenancy agreement, and explain the meaning of the clauses in these documents to you. Additionally, a conveyancing lawyer can help to highlight potentially unfavourable clauses to avoid problems during your lease. You may get in touch with experienced conveyancing lawyers here. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Serina Goh 36 years 0 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.