Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Buying and selling a property Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Last updated on April 5, 2024 What are Title Deeds? A title deed is a document for registered properties in Singapore that exhaustively records all transactions regarding each parcel of property. It is an important document that contains: A description of the property; The nature of the estate (freehold or leasehold) Details about interests or encumbrances (e.g. mortgages) of the property; and The owner of the property (therefore proving ownership of the property as well). Such information can be accessed by both property owners and potential buyers – before they enter into any transactions. In a typical sale and purchase agreement, there usually must be a valid title deed proving good title (i.e. proving correct ownership, without any encumbrances, etc.) before such transactions can take place. Hence, it is important that the title deed is kept updated as well (detailed process below). In Singapore, there are different types of title deeds. They are: “Certificate of Title” (For landed properties e.g. terrace houses or bungalows); “Subsidiary Strata Certificate of Title” (For condominiums and other apartment units); and “Subsidiary Certificate of Title” (For Housing Development Board (HDB) flats). This article will explain: Where are title deeds stored? How to view your title deed What happens if you lose your title deed How to amend your title deed Where are Title Deeds Stored? If your property is under mortgage or you have used your Central Provident Fund (CPF) monies to buy your property, your title deed will be safe-kept at the Land Titles Registry of the Singapore Land Authority (SLA) under the Paperless Title Scheme. This is based on the agreement of participating financial institutions and statutory boards with SLA. If you had purchased the property without any mortgage or use of CPF monies, the title deed would have been printed and released to you for safe-keeping. Alternatively, if you had fully repaid the mortgages and/or CPF monies, the title deed would then be printed and released to you. Viewing Your Title Deed If your title document has not been printed and released to you, you may wish to view your title deed before entering into any transactions. If you own a private property or a HDB flat (whose title records have been digitised), you will be able to view your title deed free of charge online at MyProperty by SLA. For the list of HDB properties that have been digitised, click here. This service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You can access this service by logging in with your SingPass. You will be able to search for the title records of only the property for which you are the registered owner, or on which you have lodged a caveat as a purchaser. If your property is not listed in MyProperty, this could be for one of the following reasons: The title records of your HDB property have yet to be digitised There is no caveat lodged by you as a purchaser for the private property or HDB flat that you have bought The identification number used at the time of login differs from the SLA’s records The property is bought on trust with you as the beneficiary and not the trustee. If you would like to save a soft copy of your title deed, you will be able to download it by selecting the pdf icon that is displayed next to it. Loss of Title Deed If the title deed for your property has been released to you but you have misplaced it, you cannot transact your property. If that is the case, you may apply to the Registrar of Titles for a new title deed. You will have to satisfy the Registrar of Titles that the title deed has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully withheld. This replacement process could take about 2 months. To apply to replace the title deed, you will need to complete Form 13A which can be found here. The form must be lodged online with the Singapore Titles Automated Registration System eLodgement (STARS eLodgement) portal during lodgment hours, i.e. from 8.30 am to 1.00 pm on weekdays. The application fee for such a replacement is $78.30 in addition to an issue fee of $70. Amending Your Title Deed You may wish to amend your title deed by adding, changing or removing the names currently reflected on the title deed. Changing your name on the title deed If you have officially changed your name through a deed poll and wish to have your new name reflected on your title deed, you must lodge an Application to Note Change of Name together with a lodgment form. This form should not be handwritten but must be either typed, printed or photographically produced such that it is clearly legible. Both forms can be found here. Additionally, the application must be lodged together with your original deed poll or a copy certified true by a lawyer. Note that where your property is under mortgage or you have used your CPF funds to pay for the property, you may require the consent of the bank or CPF Board to temporarily release your title deed held at SLA for the lodgment of the application as well. A conveyancing lawyer can assist you with this. The application must be submitted to SLA, 55 Newton Road, Level 1, Singapore 307987 during the lodgment hours of 8.30 am and 1.00 pm, Mondays to Fridays. Since the peak hour for lodgment is from 11.00 am to 1.00 pm, it is advised that you lodge the documents before 11.00 am. Removing a deceased person’s name from the title deed If the deceased owner held the property as joint tenant, the surviving joint tenant may lodge a Notice of Death form together with a lodgment form and a request form. The Notice of Death requires a witness, who must be 21 years of age and above, to witness the execution of the Notice of Death. The witness must clearly state his name, NRIC number and sign the execution clause of the Notice of Death. When you are lodging the Notice of Death, you must produce your original NRIC for verification and the title deed. Similarly, if your property is still under mortgage or you have used your CPF funds to pay for it, you may need the bank or CPF Board to temporarily release your title deed to you for the purposes of lodging the Notice of Death. Additionally, you will need to attach a printed copy of the digital Death Certificate (eDC) which can be retrieved from My Legacy, or the original or certified true copy of the Grant of Letters of Administration or Grant of Probate of the will of the deceased owner. If the deceased owner held the property as a tenant-in-common with another co-owner, the personal representative of the deceased owner may lodge a Transmission Application on Death of Proprietor. The original or certified true copy of the Grant of Letters of Administration or Probate of the will of the deceased owner will have to be produced for inspection. Upon successful application, the person who will inherit the deceased person’s share of the property will be the new owner and his name will replace that of the deceased person. The Notice of Death, Transmission Application on Death of Proprietor and lodgment forms can be found here. Adding the name of a co-owner If you wish to add the name of a person (e.g. your spouse) as an owner of the property, this can be done either by entering into a Deed of Gift (i.e. a legal document effecting a gift without consideration) with the person you wish to give the property to, or by selling a portion of the interest in the property to the other person. These transactions have to be registered with the SLA and the title deed will consequently be amended. — If you will be making an application to amend or replace your title deeds, consider engaging a conveyancing lawyer. A conveyancing lawyer can assist you by ensuring that the application and the supporting documents are accurately filed so that you may amend or replace your title deed expeditiously. Get in touch with experienced conveyancing lawyers in Singapore here. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means Transfer of Property in Singapore HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.