Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Last updated on April 19, 2022 What is a Tenancy? A tenancy has the legal effect of transferring an interest in land from the landlord to the tenant. It means that for a certain term at a determined rent, the tenant has exclusive possession of the premises. Typically, the duties of the landlord and tenant are found within the terms of the tenancy agreement. A breach of any of these terms potentially leads to the termination of the tenancy, resulting in several types of remedies available for both landlord and tenant. Types of Tenancies in Singapore In Singapore, tenancy takes the form of leases or licences. A lease is not the same as a licence. A lease gives the tenant a proprietary interest in the land. A licence is only a personal arrangement between two parties, where the landlord has given the tenant a personal permission to use the premises for a short period of time. A lease offers the tenant the common law rights of assignment to a third party (depending on the property) and is capable for binding a third party. Further, if the tenancy takes the form of a lease, a tenant may sue in an action for nuisance or trespass. A licensee does not have such rights to assign the premises to a third party, nor sue for nuisance or trespass. Special restrictions apply to the renting out of Housing and Development Board (HDB) flats, such as a minimum occupation period. Generally, a lease should not be shorter than 6 months in duration. For example, you may be in breach of Singapore’s housing laws if you rent out your property for short periods of time on Airbnb. The Tenancy Agreement It is important to know the terms within the tenancy agreement. Most tenancy agreements will contain terms that give the tenant quiet enjoyment and exclusive possession. Hence, the landlord must allow his tenant to occupy the premises exclusively, without any intrusions and disturbances from outsiders. The landlord cannot grant a lease of his premises on terms that effectively or substantially negative the utility of the grant. For example, if a landlord leases a store space to a tenant within a shopping mall, he must not prevent the entry of customers into the building. Similarly, a tenant will have responsibilities under the tenancy agreement too. For example, a tenant has to pay regular rent and may have to agree not to assign the lease to another person. He may also have to bear the costs of any repairs which may be necessary in the course of the tenancy. Should there be ceiling leakages, faulty electrical appliances, or peeling paint, either the landlord or tenant may bear the burden of repair, depending on their negotiations. Hence, the tenancy agreement sets out the duties of the landlord and tenant at the start of the tenancy, and prevents such disputes from arising. Ending a Tenancy Early A tenancy may be terminated only when either the landlord or tenant gives the appropriate notice to quit the tenancy. The appropriate period for notice to quit should correspond with the length of the tenancy period, and may be inferred by the frequency of rent payment. For example, for a tenancy where rent is paid monthly, the appropriate period of notice should be one month. The common minimum notice period is 30 days. To be safe, check your tenancy agreement. If you are a tenant, you should not end the tenancy prematurely without notifying the landlord. If you wish to surrender his lease, you have to obtain the consent of your landlord. While the landlord is not obliged to accept the surrender, he may request for monetary compensation from you. To guard against the premature termination of a tenancy by your tenant, some landlords request for a security deposit equivalent to an additional month’s rent. Landlords have to establish the parameters of the tenancy agreement with the tenant and find out the likelihood of a premature termination of the agreement. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES Examples: Advice on landlord-tenant agreements, eviction of tenants, rental deposits and termination of agreement. Select Select Nadia Moynihan August Law Corporation | 11 years experience | English, Malay Nadia’s practice encompasses Civil and Commercial Litigation, Matrimonial and Syariah Law as well as Criminal Law. She has experience handling cases from State Courts to High Court level. She regularly advises corporate and private clients on schemes of arrangement, bankruptcy proceedings, trade disputes, employment disputes and other contractual claims. Her… Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Che Wei Chin Fervent Chambers | 12 years experience | English, Mandarin Wei Chin is a Director at Fervent Chambers. He has a broad range of practice that includes litigation and providing commercial law advice to clients. In the field of litigation, Wei Chin has handled cases spanning across different courts, including handling High Court applications himself. His wide range of… Select Jeannette Chong-Aruldoss Robert Wang & Woo LLP | 33 years experience | English, Mandarin Working with clients to help them find real solutions to legal issues that are causing them stress and worry isn’t just a job, it’s something I’m passionate about. It’s a calling. I was called to the Singapore Bar in 1989, and have since chalked up three decades of active legal practice. I’ve acquired the experience and knowledge across a diverse range of legal matters, enabling me to bring a broad-based approach to problem-solving. Where a fight is called for, I’ll bring a hands-on and passionate approach to advocating and championing my clients’ interests. Evicting Tenants Where a tenant has breached the terms of the tenancy agreement, such as by his failure to pay rent, a landlord may forfeit the tenancy and re-enter the premises to evict his tenants. What does forfeiture entail? It means that the landlord can obtain possession of the premises either by effecting a peaceable entry by himself, or by process of law through an application to the court. Generally, forfeiture will not be invoked unless the tenant fails to pay up despite being given opportunities to do so. To re-enter the premises, the landlord needs to make a formal demand for the tenant to leave the premises. If the tenant does not submit, the usual practice is to invoke the services of a solicitor to issue an originating claim (previously known as a “writ of summons”) for possession, and begin legal proceedings for taking possession. To do this, the landlord should make sure that he has expressly stipulated a right of re-entry in the tenancy agreement. The landlord must also serve a notice, under section 18 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act, specifying the breach complained of, the compensation sought, and the remedy to be undertaken by the tenant. However, a tenant may also apply to the court for relief against the forfeiture of his lease. As forfeiture is an extremely harsh remedy, courts will give the tenant a reasonable time of an additional 4 weeks for the tenant to pay rent. For more information, refer to our article on tenant eviction in Singapore. Collecting Unpaid Rent One solution for the landlord who is owed rent is to exercise his right to distress under the Distress Act. The right to distress is a remedy for the arrears of rent where the landlord must apply for a writ of distress, where he can claim up to 12 months’ arrears preceding the distress application. It is important to note that the landlord should act on the matter swiftly and not take his own time in claiming the arrears. After which, a notice of seizure of goods and writ of distress must be sent to the defaulting tenant. If the tenant does not reply within 5 days, the landlord may exercise his option to sell off the goods. — As there is no comprehensive law governing landlord-tenant relations, much depends on the tenancy agreement. There is no one set of legal process for evicting tenants. As a matter of precaution, always review the terms of a tenancy agreement before entering into one. This article was written by Emily Koh. Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.