Transfer of Property in Singapore - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Home Ownership Issues Transfer of Property in Singapore Transfer of Property in Singapore Last updated on January 24, 2024 Considering that Singapore is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, there may be many situations in which one might choose to give away real estate in Singapore. It can be a transfer of property to one’s spouse, such as the transfer of flat ownership from a husband to his wife. Transferring property to other family members is possible as well. Finally, a wealthy person might choose to transfer one of his properties to his child and spouse as a marriage gift. He may simply wish to see his child have a property to call his own during his lifetime. Most commonly, he may choose to give away his real estate to his loved ones after he passes on pursuant to a will. There are 2 main ways in which this transfer of ownership can take place in Singapore: By way of a gift during the donor’s lifetime (known as an inter vivos gift) By way of a gift after the donor has passed on, pursuant to a will Both methods of giving away property in Singapore are fairly common but are there any issues or risks in giving property away in these ways? Taking a step further back, is it even legal to give away real estate in Singapore, and if so, can you give away your HDB flat, or only just private property? We analyse both situations in turn: 1) Transfer of property by way of a gift during the donor’s lifetime (known as an inter vivos gift). It is legal to give away real estate in Singapore without receiving monetary compensation. You can give away property by effecting a Deed of Gift between the transferor and transferee. What about HDB flats? For HDB flats, the situation is a little trickier. You can only transfer HDB flat ownership to immediate family members (spouse, parents, children, or siblings) who meet certain eligibility conditions. For example, the proposed owners must be at least 21 years old. Further, HDB flat owners who wish to transfer their ownership to an immediate family member can only do so for limited reasons such as where there is a change in the existing family structure (e.g., divorce, marriage or demise of an owner), or there is a need to retain the flat. What about private properties? Even though it is possible to give away private property, there are certain risks and issues arising from doing so that a layperson should be wary of. Is the property under a mortgage or a CPF charge? There are less considerations to take into account when giving away a property that has been purchased outright. However, many properties in Singapore tend to be purchased subject to a mortgage and/or a CPF charge. It simply makes more financial sense to do so in most situations, even if you do have the requisite amount of money to purchase the property outright. As such, if you intend to give away such a private property, it will be prudent to check with your bank and the CPF Board to find out what you have to do in order to be able to make a gift of that property. In certain cases, your bank and/or the CPF Board may not even accede to your request to make a gift of your property unless you redeem your mortgage and you may wish to consult with a conveyancing lawyer to find out more about the options you have in such a scenario. Are you giving away the property or creating a trust? Generally, most people tend to instinctively understand the concept that when you give away something, you can’t ask for it back, even if the relationship between the giver and receiver subsequently sours. Unfortunately, there have been cases in Singapore where there have been disputes over whether the owner truly intended to give away his/her property. As such, the owner of the property should be certain that he is making a gift of that property and that his true intention is not to create a trust over that property, where the person receiving the property simply holds the property on behalf of the owner. Stamp duties still have to be paid While you can give away property in Singapore, you can’t avoid paying stamp duty. Unless you wish to incur penalties, stamp duty is still payable on the market value of the share of the property to be given away and it’s prudent to obtain a valuation report on the market value of the property to calculate the stamp duty payable. General procedure to give away property that is NOT subject to a mortgage or CPF charge Enter into a Deed of Gift with the person you wish to give the property to Stamp and pay the duty of the Deed of Gift for the market value of the property that is to be given. Prepare the transfer instrument and file it at the Singapore Land Authority with the relevant title document. Lodge a Notice of Transfer with the Comptroller of Property Tax and MCST Board. 2) Transfer of property by way of a gift after the donor has passed on, pursuant to a will Giving away property through a will tends to be the most common way in which property is given away in Singapore. As people age and accumulate assets, it is only natural to think about providing for your family and friends after passing on. As real estate tends to constitute the bulk of a person’s estate, property is usually “given” away to close family members after the owner has passed on. While the initial inheriting of a property via a will generally does not attract stamp duty, there are some other issues to take into consideration when making a gift of property through a will. Is the property held in joint-tenancy? In Singapore, there are two ways of holding property, as joint tenants or tenants-in-common. Generally, parties who get married usually hold onto their properties as joint tenants whereas parties who look to co-invest in a property might prefer to purchase that property as tenants-in-common. A person who purchases a property with another person as a joint tenant is not allowed to make a gift of his share of the property through a will when he passes on. This is because any property purchased by two or more parties as joint tenants operate based on the law of survivorship. What this means is that when a party who owns a property as a joint tenant with another person passes on, his share of the property is inherited by the other person. As such, any such property included in a will is not valid as a gift. Unfortunately, this is a common mistake amongst those who draft their own wills. Is the property held overseas? In addition to their Singapore properties, wealthy Singaporeans may have properties overseas they wish to give away to their loved ones as well. Generally, a will created in Singapore can include overseas properties as well unless there is a specific clause in the will that it should only cover Singapore. However, it is generally a good idea to inform the person you’ve chosen to execute your estate about your overseas assets as the executor of your estate will have to look for probate lawyers in the countries where your overseas properties are located to reseal the Singapore grant of probate. Need a conveyancing lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Mona Oei 29 years 6 reviews Tris Xavier 1 year 0 reviews Serina Goh 36 years 0 reviews Rajan Supramaniam 24 years 31 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Conveyancing You may also be interested in How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do Buying Property on “As Is Where Is” Basis: What This Means HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Mona Oei 6 review(s) 29 years experience Mona was recommended to me by my sibling, who had also used Golden Law LLC and Mona Hwang & co… Read more Mohammed Shakirin 133 review(s) 8 years experience We thank Mr. Shakirin for responding to our requirements and questions concerning our intention to purchase a house. Despite their… Read more Tris Xavier 0 review(s) 1 year experience Read more View all lawyers for Conveyancing About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.