What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Last updated on November 1, 2019 Landlord-tenant disputes are one of the most common forms of disputes in Singapore. However, it is unclear how parties can seek to resolve such disputes in Singapore. This guide will provide a general guideline as to the rights of landlords when faced with such disputes and what parties can do to resolve such disputes. Not Sure What To Do Next? Get a 20-minute phone call with a lawyer for only $59 Arrange a call now LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES Examples: Advice on landlord-tenant agreements, eviction of tenants, rental deposits and termination of agreement. Select Select Nadia Moynihan August Law Corporation | 11 years experience | English, Malay Nadia’s practice encompasses Civil and Commercial Litigation, Matrimonial and Syariah Law as well as Criminal Law. She has experience handling cases from State Courts to High Court level. She regularly advises corporate and private clients on schemes of arrangement, bankruptcy proceedings, trade disputes, employment disputes and other contractual claims. Her… Select Lee Kim Kee K K Lee Law Corporation | 39 years experience | Cantonese, English, Hokkien, Mandarin Divorce lawyer Ms Lee has assisted clients from all walks of life through this difficult period. Friendly and approachable, she makes sure to attend to each client personally, and to use her vast experience in handling divorce cases to find the best way forward for her client. She is experienced in helping her clients to… Select Che Wei Chin Fervent Chambers | 12 years experience | English, Mandarin Wei Chin is a Director at Fervent Chambers. He has a broad range of practice that includes litigation and providing commercial law advice to clients. In the field of litigation, Wei Chin has handled cases spanning across different courts, including handling High Court applications himself. His wide range of… Select Jeannette Chong-Aruldoss Robert Wang & Woo LLP | 33 years experience | English, Mandarin Working with clients to help them find real solutions to legal issues that are causing them stress and worry isn’t just a job, it’s something I’m passionate about. It’s a calling. I was called to the Singapore Bar in 1989, and have since chalked up three decades of active legal practice. I’ve acquired the experience and knowledge across a diverse range of legal matters, enabling me to bring a broad-based approach to problem-solving. Where a fight is called for, I’ll bring a hands-on and passionate approach to advocating and championing my clients’ interests. Commonly seen landlord-tenants disputes include: Failure of the Tenant to Pay Rent The tenant is usually obligated to pay rent in exchange for his use of the premises under the lease. The lease usually specifies that the rent will be payable periodically, for example, payable by the first day of every month. The landlord has the right to demand for the payment of the rent due under the lease. Legal recourse for the landlord when his tenant fails to pay rent: Sue for the breach of contract (lease) Obtain an order to recover possession of the premises Re-enter the premises and forfeit the lease Exercise the right to distress and seize goods to sell Damage Caused to Premises during Tenancy Period There is usually a clause in the lease that states the tenant is not to damage the property for the duration of the lease. It is advised that potential tenants should ensure that the premises are in good condition before entering into the contract. This is because, in the event that there is any damage to the property and the tenant reports it, the landlord may claim that the premises had been damaged by the tenant during the rental period. Legal recourse for the landlord when his tenant causes damage to the premises: Sue for the breach of contract (lease) Obtain an order to recover possession of the premises Re-enter the premises and forfeit the lease Refusal to Leave the Premises after Termination of Tenancy Agreement A common landlord-tenant dispute arises when the tenant refuses to leave the premises as agreed, after the termination of the tenancy agreement. When a tenant continues to stay and occupy the premises after the tenancy agreement has been terminated, this is called a ‘holding over’. The landlord can either charge the tenant with: Double the amount of his rent until he leaves; or Double the value of the premises which the tenant stayed in during the period of occupation. The landlord need not give any notice to the tenant of such charges against him. Sublet of Premises or Assignment of Lease to Third-Party It is very common for landlords to discover that their tenants sublet the premises or assign their lease to a third party despite an express clause in the tenancy agreement that the tenant is absolutely not allowed to do so or not allowed to do so without consent. The landlord should not withhold consent on purpose or without valid reason when the tenant seeks consent under the lease to sublet the premises. Sue for Breach of Contract As a tenancy agreement is a contract between the landlord and tenant, the failure of the tenant to follow any of the clauses in the agreement would be a breach of the contract. The obligations to pay rent, ensure the premises are in good condition, not to sublet without consent and to leave the premises after termination of the agreement are generally provided for in the tenancy agreement. Therefore the landlord will have the right to sue the tenant if the tenant fails to fulfil those obligations. The burden lies on the landlord to prove that the tenants had failed to fulfil those obligations. If it is found that the tenant had failed to fulfil those obligations, the Court will award damages based on actual losses suffered by the landlord. Obtain an Order or Judgment for the Recovery of Possession of the Premises The landlord has the right to apply to the Court to obtain an order or judgment for the recovery of the premises when the tenant has: Failed to pay rent that was due for 21 days and above; Caused damage to the property; and Sublet and assigned the premises without consent and got paid more than what should be paid for the sublet or assigned portion. After the Court has made an order, the landlord can use the order to take back his or her possession of the premises rented out. Failure to pay rent In the case of a tenant failing to pay rent, the landlord must send the tenant a notice of demand in writing. The landlord must include his name and address in his notice of demand and serve it on the tenant at the premises which he had rented out. Landlords are advised to use registered mail, to prevent the tenant from claiming that he was not given any notice. To stop the landlord from applying a court order, the tenant has to pay the landlord for rent owed after receiving notice using registered mail at the landlord’s address. Damage caused to the premises When a tenant has wrongfully caused damage to the property, the landlord may obtain an order from the Court to seek compensation from the tenant. Subletting of premises The landlord has the right to apply to the Court to obtain an order or judgment for the recovery of the premises, if the tenant sublets the premises or assigns the lease to a third party and receives rent which: Exceeds what may be recoverable for that portion; or It exceeds 110% of what needs to be paid to the landlord in total. The order or judgment for recovery of possession is generally not enforceable against the sub-tenant. However, it will be enforceable against any sub-tenant if the court is satisfied that the tenant was prohibited by the terms of his tenancy agreement from subletting or the sub-tenant has used the premises for illegal or immoral purposes. Re-enter the Premises and Forfeit the Lease The landlord generally has the right to forfeit the lease for the non-payment of rent or when damage is caused to the premises. The lease will be terminated upon the landlord’s re-entry of the premises. If the lease did not expressly reserve the right of the landlord to forfeit the lease, the law will take that the right has been provided for in the lease if: For the failure to pay rent, the rent or any part of the rent owed has been in arrears for 30 days and above; or For the damage of property, if the lease is for more than 7 years and registered on land title The tenant may apply to the court for relief against forfeiture of his lease when the landlord is proceeding with an action to enforce his right of re-entry or forfeiture. For the non-payment of rent, the tenant may only do so if he pays all the rent he owes and for the costs of the legal action taken by the landlord. If the tenant does so, the lease will be continued without any new lease being created. Exercise the Right to Distress to Seize Goods to Sell The landlord has a right to apply to the court for a writ of distress to claim up to 12 months’ arrears of rent owed to the landlord before the distress application. The landlord should act on the matter swiftly and not take his own time in claiming the arrears, for example, waiting until the tenant owes him rent for almost 12 months before making the application. Do note that the landlord does not have the legal right to personally seize the tenant’s belongings when the tenant fails to pay rent. After the application is granted, a writ of distress will be granted and the Sheriff, an enforcement officer of the Court, will be able to seize any moveable property, such as furniture, found by him on the premises. The writ of distress and notice of seizure of goods must be sent to the defaulting tenant to notify him of the seizure and the sale of his goods. He should pay the amount due within 5 days. Alternatively, he may apply to court for an order to restrain the sale of his goods. If the tenant does not reply and pay the amount due or obtain an order to restrain the sale, the landlord may then exercise his option to sell off the goods. The money from the sale of goods will be first used to pay the Sheriff and then used to pay the landlord for the rent owed to him. Read more about applying for a writ of distress in our other article. Other Forms of Resolving Landlord-Tenant Disputes Mediation Parties can attempt to mediate when face with disputes, and mediation can be attempted at a Community Mediation Centre (CMC). The CMC provides mediation services for landlords and tenants for disputes involving: Disagreement on living arrangements; Utterance of unacceptable words; Display of unacceptable behaviour or conduct; and Interest-free monetary matters based on verbal agreement involving less than S$5000 Advantages to mediation: It is private and confidential. Parties’ identities and matters discussed will not be revealed to anyone outside of the mediation session. It saves time as it usually lasts for a few hours and can be completed within one or two sessions. It saves money as there is no charge for the mediation service. There is only an administrative fee of $5 which will be borne by the complainant. It is flexible, informal and creative. Parties are encouraged to come up with their own solutions that are mutually beneficial. It seeks win-win solutions by meeting the interests of both parties. It preserves post-conflict relationships. Read our other article for more information on mediation in Singapore. File a claim at the Small Claims Tribunals If mediation does not work, the parties can file a claim with the Small Claims Tribunals for claims up to $20,000. (The claims limit can be increased to $30,000 with both parties’ consent.) The Small Claims Tribunals has the ability to hear any claim relating to disputes arising from a tenancy lease of residential premises that does not exceed 2 years. Most forms of landlord-tenant disputes, such as claims for security deposits and unpaid rent, are resolved here. Filing a claim at the Small Claims Tribunals can be done without a lawyer, and is usually more cost-efficient for claims up to $20,000. To file a claim at the Small Claims Tribunals, the applicant is required to pay a lodgment fee. The applicable lodgment fees are as follows: Not exceeding $5,000 Exceeding $5,000 but not exceeding $10,000 Exceeding $10,000 but not exceeding $30,000 Consumer $10 $20 1% of claim amount Non-consumer $50 $100 3% of claim amount After a claim is lodged or filed, the Small Claims Tribunals will fix the claim for a consultation/mediation before the Registrar. The Registrar will mediate the claim, to assist parties in resolving the dispute. The Small Claims Tribunals will generally fix the consultation/mediation within 10 or within 14 days from the date of filing of the claim. If a claim is not settled at the consultation before the Registrar, it will generally be fixed for hearing within 7 or 10 days from the date of consultation. If the claim is fixed for Hearing before the Referee, the Referee may also explore the possibility of settlement, before adjudicating the claim. Read our other article for more information on filing a claim with the Small Claims Tribunals. Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.