Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Tenancy Disputes Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Last updated on February 26, 2024 What is the Management Corporation Strata Title (MCST)? The Management Corporation Strata Title (MCST) refers to the managing body of a strata-titled property such as a condominium (colloquially known as a “condo”). This managing body is also known as the Management Corporation (MC), and its main role is to control and manage common property of the condo (see below). The MC is formed automatically when the strata title application is registered, and comprises of all Subsidiary Proprietors (SPs, i.e. unit owners) of the condo. The MC will be represented by a council (known as the Management Council), which comprises of a representative body of members elected from among the SPs or their nominees. The council is in charge of the daily management of the condo and is elected at each Annual General Meeting. The MC is considered a corporate entity. This means it is capable of suing or being sued in relation to any: Contract entered into by the MC; Matter affecting common property (which includes parts of the land or building that can be enjoyed by more than one SP. For example, a central air conditioning system or parking area); Loss or damage suffered by the MC from contracts or other matters; or Matter relating to its land where its SPs are jointly liable. Duties of an MC in Managing a Condominium The following are a few important duties of an MC: Control, manage and administer the common property for the benefit of all SPs; Maintain the common property as well as insurance for the property as required by law; and Act on any special resolutions passed for the purpose of improving common property. For example, by installing, removing or replacing a facility on the common property. Duties of an SP in Maintaining the Condominium SPs must perform certain duties in respect of the condo. These include: 1. Paying maintenance contributions First, SPs have a duty to pay contributions that would help maintain the common property of the development. These contributions may go to the: Management fund, for the day-to-day expenses of the condo; and Sinking fund, a fund to account for future capital needs and expenses, including where repair or renewal of common property is required. The sum of these contributions is decided by the MC, and when the SP has unpaid contributions for more than 30 days, the MC can serve a written demand on the SP to recover any unpaid contribution as debt with interest. If the SP still does not pay up after 14 days from the date the written demand was served, the SP would be liable for an offence amounting to a fine up to S$10,000. The MC may recover the unpaid contribution through the Small Claims Tribunals or the courts. Alternatively, the MC may register the unpaid contribution as a charge against the SP’s property. This means that the MC may have the power to sell the unit after: A special resolution is passed by the MC; A notice of intended sale is published once in approved newspapers; There is still no payment for the unpaid contribution and interest for 6 weeks after the date of the publication; and There is no legal action pending in court to restrain the MC from selling the unit. 2. Maintaining their units’ external features Second, SPs have a duty to maintain exterior features of their units by ensuring that the features are securely fixed to the building and do not collapse. Exterior features include: Air-conditioning units; Windows; Grilles or shutters; Tiles, claddings, curtain walls, sidings, plasters, brackets, cornices; Gutters, rainwater down-pipes, Sun-shading devices, and Other permanent features installed on the roof of the exterior of the building. Where SPs have no proper justification for not maintaining such exterior features, they may be fined up to $10,000 and/or imprisoned up to 12 months. 3. Complying with the authorities’ maintenance notices Third, SPs must comply with notices served by public authorities which require SPs to carry out maintenance of their unit. If an SP does not comply with such notices, the MC may carry out that work and recover the costs incurred as a debt from the SP. 4. Other duties Other duties of SPs include: Not to do anything with their unit that interferes with the support, shelter, water, sewage or utilities supply for other units in the development; Not to cause a nuisance or hazard to other unit occupiers; Not to unreasonably interfere with other unit owners or occupiers from enjoying their own unit or common property; and Where there are inter-floor leaks, it would be presumed that the leak originated from the upper floor unit unless proven otherwise. The upper floor unit owner would then have the duty to fix the leak. What are the Laws Governing Condominium Management? Compulsory by-laws SPs have to abide by the compulsory by-laws that are part of the regulations prescribed by the Minister for National Development. Such by-laws fall under the following categories: Noise Parking of vehicles Obstruction of common property Damage to lawn, trees, shrubs and other plants Alteration or damage to common property Behaviour of owners and residents Children playing on common property Behaviour of visitors Depositing rubbish and unwanted items on the common property Drying of laundry Cleaning windows Storage of flammable liquids Garbage disposal Keeping of animals Proper maintenance of lot Proper use of lot Change of use of lot Prevention of fire and other hazards Control of use of facilities Provision of amenities and services All these prescribed by-laws serve to regulate the behaviour of SPs, occupiers and their guests. This way, other SPs may enjoy the common facilities as well as the safety, peace and quietness of their own home. Additional by-laws MCs are also empowered to make additional by-laws which fall under the following categories: Safety and security measures Details of any common property of which use is restricted Keeping of pets Parking Floor coverings Garbage disposal Behaviour Architectural and landscaping guidelines to be observed by all SPs Such other matters as are appropriate to the type of strata scheme concerned The compulsory by-laws take precedence over the additional by-laws. This means that additional by-laws are not allowed to contradict the compulsory by-laws and may be repealed if such contradiction occurs. The powers of the MC in making additional by-laws tend to be wide in scope. Notably, the MC may make additional by-laws that are stricter than the compulsory by-laws as long as they do not contradict them. All additional by-laws have to be passed via a special resolution by the MC. However, any additional by‑law for the purpose of controlling and managing the use or enjoyment of any parking lot within the common property that has fixed EV chargers installed may be passed via an ordinary resolution by the MC instead. A special resolution requires, at minimum, 21 days’ notice of the motion to be passed and support from SPs representing 75% of the share value of the condo. On the other hand, an ordinary resolution requires at least 14 days’ notice of the motion to be passed and support from a simple majority (i.e. more than 50%) of those at the meeting. The additional by-law(s) that are passed by the MC will only take effect after a copy of them has been certified as a true copy under the MC’s seal, and lodged with the Commissioner of Buildings within 45 days of the passing of the resolution. Breach of By-Laws When a by-law is breached, the MC or an SP of a unit may apply to court for an order of relief against the unit owner who caused the breach. The court may grant: An order to the unit owner to remedy the breach; An order to stop the unit owner from continuing his breach; or The recovery of damages for any loss or injury to a person or property arising out of the breach. Powers of an MC with respect to breaches of by-laws Generally MCs cannot impose fines or forfeit deposits paid for booking facilities. For example, if a resident pays a deposit for booking a function room and breaches a by-law by making too much noise, the MC would not be able to forfeit the resident’s deposit. However, MCs may recover administrative fees if they incur any costs as a result of the breach of by-laws. In the context of the earlier example, if the resident booking the function room damages the common furniture, the MC may recover the costs of repairs from him. Similarly, MCs are also permitted to demand for wheel clamp release fees to recover the cost arising from the need for these wheel clamps. For example, if the MC had applied a wheel clamp to an incorrectly-parked vehicle. Nonetheless, MCs do not have the power to ban unit owners from using the condo facilities even if the person has made repeated breaches in by-laws. This is unless the MC applies for and obtains a court order to do so (as mentioned above). MCs must be impartial when enforcing their by-laws. For example, should an MC judge wish to enforce a by-law saying that SPs are not to place personal items in common corridors, the MC cannot ask only one SP to remove their items from their common corridor. The MC has to enforce the by-law across the entire condominium by asking all SPs to remove all their items from all common corridors. Disputes Between MCs and SPs Given the numerous duties that MCs and SPs have and owe to each other, disputes may arise between both parties. Common disputes between MCs and SPs include disputes over: Inter-floor water leakages; Failure in performing duties under the by-laws; Car parking issues; Validity of resolutions passed by the MCs; Validity of certain by-laws; Unit owners being unhappy with alterations to the common property; and Requests from MCs for unit owners to carry out particular renovation works. How Can SPs Resolve Disputes with the MC? 1. Negotiate with the MC First, SPs should negotiate with the MC to work out a solution together. This is the most cost-effective solution given that no third-parties or professionals are required to be involved and such process is relatively informal. 2. Attend mediation If parties still cannot find an acceptable solution, mediation may be sought. Mediation would involve independent and neutral third-parties as the mediators. Typically, mediators would not decide on the outcome of the dispute. Instead, the role of the mediator is to facilitate discussion between the parties for them to achieve their own resolution. Mediators can be appointed through mediation bodies such as: Singapore Mediation Centre (SMC) for contractual disputes; and Community Mediation Centre (CMC) for non-contractual disputes such as community and neighbourly disputes. Parties would need to bring along all relevant documents relating to the dispute which they will refer to and rely on during the mediation session. 3. Initiate proceedings with the Strata Titles Board (STB) An application to the STB should be considered as a last resort, once the above-mentioned options have been exhausted. However, not all disputes can be referred to the STB. Some of the main disputes the STB has the power to decide on include: Dispute on costs or repairs, or rectifying a complaint in respect of a defect in a lot, a subdivided building and the common property. Convening a general meeting where the MC has defaulted. Invalidating a purported by-law that the MC has no power to make. Varying the rate of interest fixed by the MC for late payment of contribution. Varying the contributions levied or the manner of payment. Giving consent to owners to alter the common property. Appointing a managing agent. You may wish to seek a lawyer’s advice on whether you have a case against the MC of your condo before you file an application with STB. To initiate proceedings with the STB, an application has to be filed for a fee of $500, along with any supporting documentary evidence. Once the STB has returned to you a letter of acceptance case, you will be required to serve your application and all supporting documents on the MC. Upon which, a mediation date will be set and both parties must attend the mediation session(s). Unlike mediation at the SMC and CMC, parties may request for the Board (convened by the STB) to make a decision on the outcome of the dispute on their behalf. If mediation is successful, both parties will be required to sign and acknowledge the terms of the settlement agreement. These terms are final, binding and enforceable on the parties. If mediation fails, the matter will proceed to a directions hearing, where the Board will give directions as to how the matter should proceed for a hearing. The STB’s decision is final, and an appeal can only be made to the High Court on a question of law. If the STB rules in your favour but the MC fails to rectify the situation as required, you may engage a lawyer to apply to the District Court for enforcement of the STB’s orders. It is an offence not to comply with STB’s orders and the guilty party can be subject to a fine of up to $10,000 and/or to imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years. More information on the application process can be found on the STB website. 4. Commence a civil action Alternatively, for matters that are outside the decision-making powers of the STB, parties can consider litigation. Litigation is the process of suing another party under the Singapore court system. Do take note that if you are an MC who wants to take legal action against an SP, the court order that you seek cannot be disproportionate to any damage done. In a 2019 case, an MC sought a court order to get an SP to remove a shoe cabinet that had been placed along a common corridor, in breach of a by-law. Although the court acknowledged that the by-law had been breached, it denied the MC’s application for the court order. One of the reasons the court gave for rejecting the application was because granting the desired court order would be too drastic a response to the by-law breach. This was especially since the cabinet did not pose any inconvenience to anyone’s movements in the corridor. For litigation proceedings, it would be advisable for parties to engage a lawyer as it is a formalistic process with many requirements. Having a lawyer to advise on the various stages would be helpful. — If you require legal advice on the validity of your condo’s by-laws, or require legal representation for a dispute with your condo’s MC, please contact our landlord-tenant dispute lawyers. Need a mcst disputes lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Walter Silvester 17 years 64 reviews Clement Tan 15 years 12 reviews Rajan Supramaniam 24 years 31 reviews Mohammad Rizuan Bin Mohammad Yasin 8 years 340 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for MCST Disputes You may also be interested in Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Walter Silvester 64 review(s) 17 years experience Professional and expert advice by Walter Silvester with good industry and commercial knowledge. The firm gives good customer service too. Read more Mohammad Rizuan Bin Mohammad Yasin 340 review(s) 8 years experience Emerald Law LLC has assisted me with my divorce proceedings and her experience with her has been exceptional. From the… Read more View all lawyers for MCST Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.