What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? - SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Learning Centre Make a Will Legal Templates Learning Centre Housing Neighbour Disputes What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Last updated on December 13, 2023 The rule in Rylands v Fletcher (“Rylands”) is a tort of interference with land (a tort is a civil wrong committed against another person or property). The rule in Rylands covers situations where damage is caused arising from the escape of dangerous things from the defendant’s land in the course of a non-natural use of land. The damage suffered by the plaintiff must be foreseeable by the defendant. The rule in Rylands was endorsed by the Singapore Courts in the case of Tesa Tape, and is thus good law in Singapore. To enforce the rule in Rylands, a plaintiff must show the following elements: The non-natural use of land The escape of the ‘thing’ A ‘thing’ is likely to do mischief if it escapes, and Damage was caused to the plaintiff. Under the first element, the non-natural use of the land suffices only when a special use of the land brings with it an increased danger to others. It must not be the ordinary use of the land or such a use that is proper for the general benefit of the community. Further, if the damage arising from the use of the land is reasonably expected by the occupier, it will not be regarded as non-natural. For instance, in the Tesa Tape case, where the defendant stacked containers on a piece of land that was not meant for this purpose and its unexpected collapse resulted in the damage of the plaintiff’s property, this was considered to be an unnatural use of the land. Under the second element, the ‘thing’ that has escaped must have been brought into the defendant’s land and collected there. Moreover, the ‘escape’ must be one that escaped from the place which the defendant has occupation of or control over, to a place outside of his occupation or control. Under the third element, the ‘thing’ must be likely to do mischief. That is to mean that the ‘thing’ must have brought with it an ‘increased danger’ to others. This does not mean to say that the ‘thing’ must be inherently dangerous, but a thing that is ordinarily not a source of danger might be regarded as likely to do mischief in certain circumstances and this is enough to satisfy this criteria. An example to illustrate this point would be the seeping of water from the pipe causing damage to art works in an art gallery. Lastly, for the final element, the plaintiff must show that the damage suffered was foreseeable by the defendant, and was caused by the defendant, to the plaintiff. For example, in PEX International Pte Ltd v Lim Seng Chye, it was found that the damage by fire caused by PEX to Lim was reasonably foreseeable and PEX was thus liable under the rule in Rylands. PEX had authorised its contractor to undertake renovation works on its land which included hot works that gave rise to a “foreseeable risk of damage” to Lim’s land. Foreseeability is often used by the court as a limiting factor to liability. Otherwise, businessmen and commonfolk alike run the risk of attracting liability for damage caused that could not have been prevented notwithstanding the utmost and greatest care taken. Need a landlord-tenant disputes lawyer to assist with your legal matters? × These lawyers are selected based on their number of positive reviews and years of experience in this subject you are enquiring about. Ok, got it Here are 5 trusted lawyers you can contact directly for a quote. Mohamed Baiross 16 years 467 reviews Siraj Shaik Aziz 6 years 18 reviews Lee Kim Kee 41 years 49 reviews Mohammed Shakirin 8 years 133 reviews Abdul Wahab 9 years 209 reviews Subject Message Contact Info View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes You may also be interested in 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Housing Buying and selling a property 6 Highly Rated Conveyancing Lawyers in Singapore (2024) Can I Buy an HDB Flat in Singapore For Investment Purposes? Conveyancing Lawyers for Singapore Property Transactions Property Title Deeds: How to Amend & Do You Need a Copy? Legal Issues to Note When Helping Your Child Buy a Property The Conveyancing Process in Singapore Types of property and home ownership in Singapore Option to Purchase: 6 Things to Know Before Exercising It Common Terms in Sale & Purchase Agreements Why and How to Lodge a Caveat on a Property in Singapore Joint ownership in Singapore and unequal contributions to purchase price Buying Property in Singapore: How to Pay for Your Property Buying Property on "As Is Where Is" Basis: What This Means Buying a Property on Trust for Your Child What are the duties of an estate agent in Singapore? HDB Resale Process: Selling Your HDB Flat Without an Agent Property Auction: Buying a House in Distressed Sales & More Stamp Duties Guide to Seller's Stamp Duty When Selling Property in Singapore The Essential Guide to Buyer’s Stamp Duties in Singapore (2023) Decoupling to Beat the Additional Buyer's Stamp Duty Renovation Disputes Renovation Disputes in Singapore Your Contractor Damaged Your Neighbour's Property. Can You Be Made Liable? What is the Defects Liability Period for Your Singapore Home? Tenancy Disputes Illegal Subletting in Singapore: Laws and Penalties What is Wear and Tear? Are Landlords or Tenants Liable For It? Evicting Family Members From Your Property in Singapore Being Evicted in Singapore: What Happens and Next Steps Guide to Letters of Intent for Property Rentals in Singapore Tenant-Landlord Rights in Singapore 6 Common Terms in Tenancy Agreements & What They Mean What If I Have a Tenancy Dispute or Complaint in Singapore? Getting a Mortgage Redemption in Singapore Landlord Won’t Return Your Security Deposit: What to Do Landlord’s Guide to Evicting a Problematic Tenant in Singapore Applying for a Writ of Distress When a Singapore Tenant Owes You Rent Are Landlords, Tenants, and Agents Liable for Sex Trade in HDB flats/Condominiums? Dispute With Your Condo’s Management or MCST: What to Do Is Airbnb Illegal in Singapore? Neighbour Disputes Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals (CDRT): How to File a Claim How to Obtain an Exclusion Order Against a Neighbour in Singapore Resolving Disputes with a Neighbour from Hell in Singapore Ceiling Leaks: What Can I Do? What if a Chinese funeral or a Malay wedding is too noisy? What is the Tort of Interference with Land? What is the rule in Rylands v Fletcher? Home Ownership Issues How Can I Buy My Co-Owner’s Share of the Property? Transfer of Property in Singapore Joint Tenancy vs Tenancy-in-Common and How to Change Refinancing Your Home Loan Co-Owner Refuses to Sell Your Singapore Property: What to Do DisclaimerThe information provided does not constitute legal advice. You should obtain specific legal advice from a lawyer before taking any legal action. Although we try our best to ensure the accuracy of the information on this website, you rely on it at your own risk.Related Lawyers Lee Kim Kee 49 review(s) 41 years experience Ms Lee is very experienced; and sharp and clear with her explanations. I have benefited from her legal consultation. Read more Mohamed Baiross 467 review(s) 16 years experience Mr Baiross is exceptionally professional and dedicated, making him a standout lawyer in Singapore. His ability to navigate complex issues,… Read more Siraj Shaik Aziz 18 review(s) 6 years experience I was given some charges by the AGC awhile back and was extremely worried because the potential consequences included a… Read more View all lawyers for Landlord-Tenant Disputes About About SingaporeLegalAdvice.com Contact Us Get Help Find a Lawyer Call a Lawyer Find a Private Investigator Resources Learning Centre Legal News Privacy Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2014-2024 First World Problems Pte Ltd. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.